Welcome to 3GPP Myth versus Reality.
This is session 717.
My name is Aliza Hutchison.
I'm the QuickTime product manager in
the QuickTime product marketing group.
And I'm joined up here by David Singer,
who is an architect in our
QuickTime engineering group.
We're both actually going
to do the session today,
so I'm your host and a
speaker along with Dave.
We'd like to take general questions
at the end of the session,
but we're happy to take
some clarifying questions
throughout the session as we go.
So let's get started.
So hopefully many of you were able
to attend our QuickTime State of the
Union yesterday with Frank Casanova,
the Director of
QuickTime Product Marketing,
and Tim Schaaf,
the VP of our Interactive Media Group.
We're going to build upon a lot of
the items they talked about in that
session if you were able to attend.
If you weren't able to
attend that session,
we would like to introduce
you to mobile multimedia.
We'd like to go into a lot
of detail about the standard,
and then we'd also like to talk
about QuickTime's support for
the mobile multimedia standard,
which is 3GPP.
But before we actually get into a lot of
detail about mobile multimedia standards,
I'd like to spend a little bit of
time talking about standards in
the telecommunications industry.
So if you look at
cellular standards today,
I like to say they're sort of all
over the map for those of us that
aren't really familiar with them.
And this chart is
intentionally hard to read.
I don't expect you to be able to
pick out each little country and say,
"Ah, I understand what standard they're
using." The radio network standards
generally fall into two categories.
There's sort of a CDMA family of
technologies for the radio networks,
and then there is a
GSM technology family.
And what you can see here is that
distributed across all geographies,
some countries tend to be towards one.
So Europe has adopted predominantly
the GSM family of technologies.
Then you'll see countries in
Asia that have primarily adopted
the CDMA family of technologies.
And then you'll see a mixture of both,
and that's what we have
here in the United States.
But all of these technologies
have evolved over time,
and we talk about them
in terms of generations.
So the first generation technologies
started with both CDMA and GSM,
and then I've also put on
here a column for TDMA,
which was a first generation
technology that was developed
here in the United States by AT&T.
But as you progress up
to the 2G technologies,
you're actually talking
about not just voice,
but adding a data layer
for the radio networks,
and those have some different acronyms
that you've heard about before,
like GPRS, for example,
and that's where the GSM and
TDMA technologies actually came together
under that GSM family of technologies.
As we go -- oh, and I went the wrong way.
As we progress forward,
you'll see that with the
2.5 and 3G technologies,
there's a whole other set
of words that people use.
People use to talk about the technology,
so you progress into what's called
CDMA 2000 with different 1X versions.
Then you also progress into
what's called UMTS technologies
and a similar technology that's
built on top of that in Japan,
which is called WCDMA.
So we don't want to spend a lot of
time on these particular technologies.
The idea here is there are really two
families of generation technologies
as you move up in your data speeds,
and they exist in different
places across the world.
So when you talk about speeds,
you're probably talking in
the 2G somewhere around 9600
to 14.4 kilobits per second.
As you go to the 2.5 technologies,
you're looking more at like 28.8,
and this varies.
And then as you start with 3G,
the definition of 3G technologies
is to start with data rates of
about 144 kilobits per second,
progressing all the way up to
forecasted speeds between 1
and 2 megabytes per second.
What is 3G?
3G is the foundation that
you hear about all the time.
It's what you think you need
to have for mobile multimedia.
Let's just break it down a little bit
so that we understand some basics.
First of all, to have a 3G technology,
that bandwidth needs to
be licensed by carriers.
The carriers bought the bandwidth.
Then they had to build the high-speed
packet switch radio networks.
When those things are in place,
then you can have rich multimedia
services that you can view these
services through these mobile
media devices that are now,
some of them are now on the market today.
But all of this has been
surrounded by a lot of hype.
We've been hearing about
3G for a long time,
and so of course that's produced a fair,
oh God, I'm so sorry.
Here's the clicker.
Which way do I go on the clicker?
That one.
Thank you.
This has produced a
fair bit of skepticism.
Just when you've heard about something
you've heard about and heard about,
you don't see it immediately.
There's a lot of people that didn't
really think that this was going to work.
You've read things, I'm sure,
that says the operators that
purchase these bandwidths,
they're destined for bankruptcy.
Is 3G just another internet disaster?
Those are some of the myths that
we wanted to talk about today.
And then really talk about the
reality of some of those statements.
So the realities are that all of
these services that can deliver
mobile multimedia don't actually rely
on complete network build-outs of 3G,
if you will.
So, for instance,
a lot of mobile multimedia
can be downloaded just fine,
or messaging services are working
just perfectly on 2G and 2.5G networks
that we even have today with GPRS and
some of the major cities in the world.
Close the microphone.
United States.
Wow, that's a lot louder.
Okay.
Then the other thing we wanted
to talk about is that not
every carrier went bankrupt.
So yes, of course,
there were highly publicized auctions
for some of this bandwidth where
people paid lots and lots of money,
but not all countries paid tons of
money and not all carriers bought their
competitors to get into this space.
So not everyone went bankrupt.
And finally, we believe and other people
believe that the services will
lead the network buildouts,
just as it did with
Internet technologies where we were
all just perfectly satisfied to
dial up on our modems to view the
Internet and see how that worked.
But because we found really
valuable services to go and
look at on the Internet,
the public actually created the demand
for higher speed networks and now we
all have access to things like DSL and
cable for broader bandwidth connections.
And we believe the same
thing will happen with the 3G
technologies as they progress.
Some other doses of reality here.
I put a couple quotes up
and a couple statistics.
But there are very positive
industry analysts' reports about
the rollout of 3G networks and
also the business that there is,
there truly is, in 3G mobile multimedia.
So you see numbers from IDC forecast
of a $30 billion industry by 2006.
So there's a real
forecasted industry here.
And there are real rollouts happening
right now of this service that make
it a reality for you as developers.
Now I'm going to hand it over to
Dave Singer to talk about how this
is really relevant for QuickTime.
So we talked about those parts of the
network that the operators have produced.
What we're concerned of course about in
multimedia is things like video playback,
video recording,
and being able to get content
on and off those phones,
being able to send a
multimedia message to a phone,
or maybe being able to load content
off a web server onto a phone.
And it's worth noticing that all those
need just a handset and the service.
They don't actually rely on
reliable high-speed bandwidth.
So if you send a message or
you do a download over a 2G
or 2.5G network instead of 3,
well it's a little slower,
but you still get it.
The only service that actually
needs that full network build out,
and a reliable one at that,
is of course streaming.
So that's one of the reasons
we expect to see streaming
lagging these other services,
is that the operators have to
both build out and get confidence
with their network before they
can deploy the streaming services.
So I'm going to talk a little
bit about where the standards
come from and what's in them.
There are two major bodies developing
standards for the 3G world.
There's 3GPP and 3GPP2,
imaginatively named pair of bodies.
3GPP stands for
Third Generation Partnership Project.
It's actually a partnership
of quite a lot of standards
bodies from all over the world.
And they're building on the
GSM heritage of cell phone standards.
And then 3GPP2 is building on the CDMA.
the CDMA 2000 heritage of standards.
The 3GPP is designed to provide a really
high-speed network so that you can
get interesting multimedia content to
devices and do all sorts of fascinating,
high-value, compelling services.
It's being adopted by a whole bunch
of companies all over the world.
So what we've got here is a variety of
companies from handset manufacturers,
operators, infrastructure makers,
and computer people like ourselves.
So there's a lot of support behind
this standard all over the place.
I'm going to go a little into what is
in the multimedia part of the 3G spec.
3GPP standards obviously cover
everything from the radio network
and how you do modulation all the
way through to the final services
that you present to the user.
In QuickTime, of course,
though I'm interested,
I'm curious about the radio network,
what we really care about
is the multimedia services.
So I'm going to focus in on that.
And in there, we'll find that there's a
package including speech codecs,
general audio or music codecs,
video codecs,
there's a container file format
into which you can put those,
and then above that container
file format there are delivery
frameworks such as Smile 2.0,
the synchronized media
integration language,
there's MIDI music,
still images and so on that you can place
into messages and into Smile overlays.
In terms of speech codecs,
the primary speech codec used in 3G
multimedia in the 3GPP world is AMR,
Adaptive Multi Rate Codec.
This is the codec that the
telephone itself uses when
it's making a phone call.
It's adaptive because a 3G network
can vary its bandwidth and when it's
being used in a telephony context,
the codec can then adapt to
the available bandwidth that
it's getting from the network.
This means, of course,
in QuickTime or multimedia terms,
we can treat it as a variable rate codec.
It is a classic 8 kilohertz
sampling rate telephony codec,
it's a kelp-based codec.
So it is optimized for handling speech.
It'll handle all the content,
but like you've tried,
I'm sure you've tried
the PureVoice codec,
some of you in the QuickTime world,
on general content,
you'll know that speech codecs are
not the best codec for handling music.
It's adaptive in that it
switches between various modes,
and in those modes you'll actually
recognize some historic codecs
that you already know and love,
such as the GSM full and
half rate codecs and so on.
In the stable is also
a higher sampling rate,
richer sounding wideband codec
that's optional in the spec.
I haven't seen much of it happening
at the moment in the 3G world,
but there is a codec waiting
in the wings there if you want
to do higher quality codecs.
So you can do that with any speech.
And those two can be packed
in their own file format.
There's a .amr file
format which you can use,
and a lot of the phones support that
for recording voice notes or parts
of calls in progress if you have a
phone that will allow you to record.
In general audio terms,
we're really lucky.
We have the world-leading AAC codec.
This is probably the best
music codec out there.
Recently, actually, there was a listening
test on the internet.
I don't know whether you heard.
The one that you've got in
QuickTime actually came out
tops in the listening test
between the AAC codecs available.
So you not only have
the world-leading codec,
but you have a world-leading
implementation of a world-leading codec.
What's in the 3G spec is the same simple
version of MPEG-4 AAC that we're using,
that's used in iTunes,
and indeed is used in digital
radio mondial and so on.
So you'll find AAC is getting
deployed quite widely across
a whole variety of services,
not just 3G.
So this was definitely a forward-looking
codec from the 3G group when
they adopted it a few years ago.
In video codecs,
there's a couple of choices in the spec.
The basic mandatory codec is H.263.
I'm going to give you profile and level
numbers for those of you who are curious.
I'm not going to explain
the features of the profiles
because I can never remember.
I always have to look it up myself.
So the basic profile 0,
level 10 is a basic H.263 codec,
no fancy options and so on.
Level 3 is, profile 3, sorry,
is permissible in the spec,
but it's not mandated.
And then also available in
the spec is MPEG-4 video,
and you'll find some of the cell phones,
but not all, implementing MPEG-4 as well.
Also in the 3G spec,
I didn't show this in the overview slide,
there's support for timed text.
And actually,
if you look at the specification,
you're going to go, oh,
that's awfully familiar.
That looks like QuickTime timed text,
and that was because I wrote it,
and I'm lazy.
The 3G spec, however,
is improved in quite a number of areas.
It's simpler than the
QuickTime specification in
that we allow only keyframes,
as it were.
There's no difference frames.
And it's modernized compared to
the QuickTime implementation.
So it's based on Unicode instead
of Macintosh character coding,
and it allows vertical writing and so on.
You get full alpha control for both
your foreground and background colors.
So in some senses,
it's more powerful and more complicated,
but in many respects, it's simpler.
This allows you to do a lot
of things in a single time.
So in some senses,
it's more powerful and more complicated,
but in many respects, it's simpler.
do subtitling, credits, karaoke,
hyperlinks, and so on.
And it's currently deployed in
Docker mode service and handsets.
All those that I just talked about,
the speech codec, the video codecs,
the general audio codec,
they can be wrapped in the
3G multimedia file format,
which in turn was based
on the MPEG-4 file format,
which we know and love,
which of course was based on
the QuickTime file format.
So if you were to open
one of these 3G files,
you'd go, I recognize that.
It's got a move atom in it,
and you'd be right.
So also in the 3G files, however,
there is the intrinsic file type atom,
which was introduced by
the JPEG-2000 standards,
and that allows you to
mark a file as saying,
which standards do I think
this file complies to?
Or in particular,
what readers that implement
particular standards should
be allowed to play this file?
So you can say,
I want this file to be playable
both by an MPEG-4 player and by a
3GPPlayer by carefully marking the
way you build this atom in the file.
So there's intrinsic typing in the file
as well as extrinsic from its name.
or it's my own type.
The 3GPP2 standard also
uses the same file format,
which is kind of convenient to you.
But they use, of course,
their own suite of codecs.
So their voice codec is one of them,
they have several,
is the pure voice codec that's already
in QuickTime that you're familiar with.
They chose Layer 3 audio rather
than AAC for their general
audio because of its deployment
rather than forward-looking.
But as I say, the same file format.
And it's worth looking just for a moment
at the evolution of the file format.
So way back in the midst of time when
some of us were still sitting in our
high chairs and eating soft food,
the QuickTime file format was written
in 1990 actually and published in
1991 with the first ship of QuickTime.
And that was successfully used by
the QuickTime group alone for quite
a number of years until MPEG-4
finally decided that they really
ought to have a standard file format.
They never had for MPEG-1 and 2.
And so the MPEG-4 file format was
derived from QuickTime in the late '90s.
Well, that triggered a whole flurry of
activity around the multimedia industry.
The Motion JPEG group and the 3G
group both looked at that and said,
"You know, we could use that file format
if we just changed the media
types in there," just in the way
that QuickTime has in the past.
And so we built Motion JPEG-2000
and the 3G spec derived in a
rather awkward way from the MPEG-4
spec because the MPEG-4 spec said,
of course,
that you had to use MPEG-4 coding
standards and these people wanted
to use something different.
Well,
the committee eventually decided that
this was a mess and that we really
wanted a single file format again.
So they said,
"Why don't you guys get together and
define a base that's going to be a
base that doesn't talk about any of
these coding standards that tells us
how to structure a file?" That we're
calling the ISO media file format.
And that really is the direct
inheritor of the QuickTime one
because it's an abstract container.
And on top of that,
we can now put MPEG-4 again,
MPEG-4 version 2,
and Motion JPEG version 2 are re-hosted,
as it were, in the ISO media file format.
And that, of course,
allows other groups such as
3GPP and 3GPP2 to do the same.
So this ISO file format, this family,
is really becoming the de
facto standard for multimedia
containers in the industry.
Everybody's using it.
In fact,
there are other bodies here that I ran
out of space to put little bubbles,
so I didn't put them on this diagram.
But, for instance,
the SD Video Card Association is also
using this file format as their standard
for multimedia on SD Video Cards.
So where are these standards?
How are they doing?
The standards themselves
are mature and published.
So for example,
if you were to look in the 3GPP
world at the specification with
the wonderfully mnemonic 26.234,
you would find the specification
for multimedia container file
and packet switch to streaming
and multimedia and so on.
The formats and the protocols
are specified and published.
And that includes
specifications for messaging,
email-like operation, download,
HTTP web-like operation, streaming,
and so on.
But today I think you're going to see
more downloading and messaging than
streaming because the operators need
to build out those high-speed networks,
they need to get confident about them,
and you need to be able to
afford to pay for the bandwidth.
Which tends to be a little difficult
when they're doing their initial
deployment because they're charging
a lot of money for bandwidth.
So you'll see streaming coming,
but you're going to see these
other download formats leading the
streaming standards by a little way.
An interesting one coming up
in the standards committee,
if you care,
is that they're actually working
on one-to-many transmissions,
so we can actually do multicast
streaming at some point in the future,
we hope.
So how do you get data
on and off your phone?
This is a question that
we get asked quite often.
And what we draw on you here
is a complicated diagram which,
like Gaul, is in three parts.
At the top of the diagram,
your local area, your office,
your home or whatever.
On your right, the cellular network,
and on the left, the internet.
So one obvious way you can get
content on and off the phone,
of course, is locally.
You may be able to use Bluetooth,
infrared, a USB cable, a memory card,
and so on,
to move content from your personal
computer to and from your phone.
Once you've got content on your phone,
of course, you may be able to send it
as a multimedia message,
like an email, to another person on
the cellular network,
if your carrier supports it.
So that's the diagram over there.
Also, that same multimedia message,
you may be able to generate one from
your phone here and send it through
a gateway to an email address to
somebody out on the internet again.
So there are gateways being
built that will do conversion
of multimedia messages to email.
Indeed,
they'll do it the other way sometimes,
if you're lucky.
Again, depending on your operator.
You can sometimes generate an
email over on your computer here
and have it come through the
gateway and end up as a multimedia
message on somebody's cell phone.
Similarly,
there are web browsers and the ability
to use HTTP on some of these cell phones,
and they can load content either
through a gateway or off the operator's
hosted network off a web server.
So you may be able to put content in
some suitable way onto an HTTP server
and then access it both from your
laptop machine and from your cell phone.
So you actually have quite a way
of working with your cell phone and
with other people's cell phones.
And as I say,
you're going to have to talk to
your operator about what is possible
in each of those environments.
So with that,
I'm going to turn it over to Aliza,
who's going to introduce you
to all the exciting work the
engineering group did in 6.3.
So the natural progression of
defining a standard hopefully is
there will be tools that will be made
available based on that standard.
And Apple was very pleased to announce in
early June the release of QuickTime 6.3,
which provides support for
the 3GPP standard with native
support for AAC and AMR,
MPEG-4, H.263 video, 3G text,
and the 3GP file format.
Where this puts QuickTime is that now
we have the first widely distributed
3GPP player for the desktop,
we have the first low-cost
3GPP authoring tool,
and we are the tool of choice for
the world's first standards-based
3G network service with NTT DOCOMO's
mobile MP4 iMotion service.
So what does that actually mean?
Dave talked through some sort of
theoretical examples about how
data could be moved back and forth.
But what's actually happening now?
Well, as an example,
we've been working with
Docomo where their content,
their professional content creators
are using QuickTime to create content
that then is distributed over their
network to their mobile phones.
And this, for example,
is one of NTT Docomo's phones for
iMotion that supports 3GPP playback.
Another example is that users that
have one of these iMotion phones or any
3GPP-capable phone can capture content
on their phone through the video camera.
It can then be distributed through
the network either now to the
desktop using a QuickTime player or,
of course, to another phone.
The evolution of this will be that users
can also just create content on their
desktop that can then be mailed over
the network to a phone for viewing.
So the thing that's very exciting
about this is not only is
QuickTime the first mainstream
3GPP authoring and playback tool,
but all of the applications
that QuickTime supports also
now become instantly available
to create mobile media content.
So you see, of course,
Final Cut Pro 4 on here,
which now can create 3GPP content,
and a host of other applications
that are built on our SDK,
in addition to the ones that Apple has,
like iMovie, for example,
now can all create
MPEG-4 and 3GPP content.
So what does this mean for you?
Well, hopefully what this means for
you is that we've opened up,
with this new launch of QuickTime,
a whole new market for
you to create tools for.
And there are new customers that
we've never talked to before and
that maybe you've never had a
chance to create products for.
The customers now are operators.
These are mobile operators
that need tools for content,
for editing, and for management.
We also have new content owners
that want to get content onto
mobile phones that maybe have not
used QuickTime-based tools before.
And in addition,
we have a whole bunch of end users
that have lots of content that
they want to simply and easily
create for mobile phone usage.
And where are the real opportunities?
Well, we've been talking about Japan,
and often people look to Asia to
see what's happening in the
telecommunications market.
But there are real strong
predictions for the revenue value
there with mobile media services.
And we've been talking
about some examples.
NTT DoCoMo and J-Phone both
have 3GPP compliant handsets.
DoCoMo has rolled out a full 3G network,
and J-Phone is moving very quickly
to roll out their network as well.
When you look at Europe,
they also have a variety of 3GPP
handsets that are available right now.
This, for example,
is the Sony Ericsson P800,
which comes with a
native 3GPP player on it.
There's also been 3G launches
by Hutchison in the UK,
Sweden, Italy, Austria,
which isn't on there, and Australia,
which isn't in Europe, but close.
Finally, there are opportunities
right here in the US.
You can buy a Nokia 3650 today from
several of these operators up here.
I imagine that they'll soon be
shipping some of these other mobile
multimedia handsets as well with
varying services and coverage as we
progress in the same style as the
Japanese market and the European market.
So an investment in 3G is an investment
in these ongoing greater and greater
bandwidth telecommunication technologies,
and Dave promises me that
there's something called 4G.
Well, there are a variety of companies
doing things that they're labeling 4G.
It's not actually terribly
well defined in the industry,
or it may be variously defined
well by various people.
You're seeing a variety of companies
that are deploying high-speed,
more data-oriented networks than
the traditional cell phone networks,
with some, at least,
heritage from the 802.11 family in terms
of how they do radio network management,
and so, as I say, more data-oriented.
But they're trying to get a reach
much more like cellular networks.
So it's a kind of a hybrid approach.
Obviously, 802.11 airport,
you've seen how many base stations we've
had to put to cover just this building.
There's no way you're going to build
out a national infrastructure or
something with a reach of that kind.
They have a very different
cost and deployment model.
So these are very different.
These are not typically the traditional
telephony-operated networks.
They're more traditional
operators or traditional telephony
cost models and deployment.
As I say,
they're more data-centric than the
traditional cell phone networks.
In general,
I think this is good news for those
of us in the multimedia community.
As I say, it doesn't really matter to us
whether you're using licensed
bandwidth or unlicensed bandwidth,
as long as we can get the
bits onto the devices.
So my belief is that we're
going to see a whole mishmash of
services that you'll be able to
get at very high speeds on 802.11,
at medium speeds maybe on
some of these 4G networks,
if you're lucky and they're
deployed in your area.
And at quite decent network
rates over 3G networks,
again,
if you're lucky and you live in Japan or
they happen to get deployed in your area.
So you're going to see
these things coming along.
But for the meantime,
the big operators are rolling out
3G and particularly multimedia
across very large areas,
obviously entire countries or continents.
So at this point, what I'd like to do is
give you a demonstration of
using QuickTime multimedia
and a cellular phone.
And I'm going to choose an application
here that's done absolutely nothing
to warrant being in this presentation,
and that they've done nothing special
to support QuickTime 3G at all.
The application actually is one that's
worth knowing about in the first place.
It's called iView Media Pro,
and this application is designed for
cataloging and managing media assets.
It has lots and lots of features.
I'm not going to go into it.
I'm not supposed to be
advertising it here.
It allows you to do
version control and so on.
And here I've taken a seminar
that Frank and his team did and
split it up into short clips.
And so, for example,
here's a clip where he's talking
about... ...the world called 3GPP,
Third Generation Social Publishing
Project.
Oh, the 3G standard.
Well, Frank, thank you.
And if we look through the seminar,
we can find all sorts of clips.
Here's Rhonda and so on,
and Frank introducing Stream.
And you can even just check the clips
right there in the window if you want to.
This program actually uses QuickTime to
help it with its cataloging.
It has a lot of functionality
built in as well,
don't get me wrong.
But they're using QuickTime here
to play back these clips.
And they also, as it happens,
use the QuickTime APIs to the hilt,
and that's why I'm demonstrating them.
So I'm going to choose a couple of those,
the two that I just showed you.
And I'm going to ask it, well,
why don't you convert those movie files?
And what they do is they scan to see
what QuickTime exporters are available,
and they offer them.
So this application, I have to say again,
was written and this version shipped
before we shipped our 3G support.
But, man, it just works.
And this is good application programming.
And I encourage you,
if you're an application developer,
to do as well as this.
So I'm going to choose export to 3GPP.
And here we can bring up the settings.
So here the choices we offer you are
two of the... important 3GPP releases,
where they allow different services,
and the entity Docomo's own service.
And I'm going to choose release 5.1.
Here, again, as I say,
you can choose H.263 on page 4.
I'm going to pick H.263,
because I'm going to create content
that I want to be widely applicable
to lots and lots and lots of phones,
and that's the mandatory codec.
176 by 144, that's a good size.
I don't want it to be
seen smaller than that,
and let's hope the phones are that big.
And in this case, I'm running a seminar,
so I'm going to let it be speech content.
And in this particular case,
we didn't have a text.
We're going to pick a text track.
Pick the data rates.
You've seen this kind of interaction
with our MPEG-4 export dialog.
We can pick a data rate and
the keyframes and so on.
And in speech, I'm going to let it use
all the bits it can.
It's not as if a speech codec
uses a lot of the channel,
even when you allow it to really crank.
And it's a mono content, and as I say,
there is no text track.
Here we could set up to restrict
distribution if we were going
to an entity Docomo service,
but we're not here.
And I don't need this
hinted for streaming.
We will hint it for streaming,
but in this case, I don't need to.
So that sets the options.
I'm going to choose a
folder here to put them in.
3GP file sounds like a great folder name.
When I click choose,
it runs the export operation
on all the files I chose.
So here it is cranking through.
This is actually transcoding
from MPEG-4 to H.263,
so it's taking a little longer than
if I started with base content.
And if we look,
we find we've got a couple
of 3G files in that folder.
Now, the other cool thing about
this application is that they
really did their homework.
When they're given a file,
if they don't recognize it themselves,
they say to QuickTime, hey,
could you do something with this file?
And if the answer is yes, then they are.
Well,
they allow you to catalog it as well.
So actually,
you can catalog the content that
came off your phones or that you've
actually coded ready for your phone.
So here again is the same click,
but now coded,
ready to go out to a phone.
Third generation partnership project.
Yep,
and here we are stumbling on the phone.
So at this point,
what we could do is take those
and transfer them to a phone.
So here we have the clips.
I'm going to pick one of them.
I have here plugged in.
You can just see it flashing
blue if you've got really,
really, really good eyesight.
This is a Bluetooth adapter that
I've plugged into the machine.
It's somewhere way down here.
And so we've got
Bluetooth on this machine.
And so if I drag this on top
of the Bluetooth file exchange,
then it comes up and it says, well,
how about Frank's 3650?
I happen to remember this once.
I didn't have to search for it.
I have Frank's 3650 here.
I stole it from him yesterday.
And when we click send,
it's going to say,
are you sure this phone
likes this kind of file?
And I'm going to say, yes, I'm sure.
And the phone goes beep and says,
do you want to receive this message?
And I say, yes.
And you'll see the progress bar goes.
And the phone and the progress bar goes.
And the progress bar.
There's nothing like working in a noisy
radio environment to watch progress bars,
is there?
Come on.
Here it goes.
and then when it finishes
downloading... Man,
this went like anything before
all you guys came into this room.
This is very cool.
This is using a Bluetooth service,
the standard Bluetooth file
exchange service,
which both we... So the phone beeps,
I say show, and it comes up,
and... Holy cow,
it's the real one player.
And yes?
So here we see wonderful
interoperability.
I can confidently claim we didn't
write the player on this phone.
You saw somebody else's logo.
This is what it's all about.
We're interoperating
on a public standard,
and as a result, we've got a wonderful
wealth of opportunity.
Somebody else wrote the player
on the Sony Ericsson P800.
Somebody else again wrote it
for the Dockermode phones.
And we're playing on all of them.
This is why you've got a nice
big sandbox to play in now.
You've got lots of opportunity to go out
there and create interesting content.
So, having got you all
excited about this stuff,
where can you go for more information?
Let me go through some of that.
So, obviously,
the first place you're going to
go to is QuickTime's own website,
and you're going to find out
about our MPEG-4 and 3GPP support,
which you can find at
www.apple.com/mpeg4/3gpp.
Don't try and say that
out loud yourselves.
3GPP specifications.
Good news here: they're public.
Bad news: of course,
3GPP defines specifications for
everything from radio modulation
through all the numerous
interfaces in the network,
and you could learn how to build
your own cell phone network if
you read all those specifications,
which means there's a lot of them.
But they are public.
You can find them at www.3gpp.org,
their website.
There you'll find, for instance,
the AMR codec and file
form--codec specified.
The file format is actually
specified by the IETF,
believe it or not.
You shouldn't need to
read about the AMR codec.
We've done that hard work for you.
We've got it implemented.
But the 3G file format and the multimedia
services you might want to look at,
and as I said before,
you might want to pull down 26.234.
If you're really curious about
the details of what you can do
in terms of codecs and so on,
I'd suggest you look at release 5
if you're intending to go there.
MPEG-4 specifications are not public.
However, you can buy them publicly
by going to the ISO website,
www.iso.ch.
"Ch" because they're in Switzerland.
MPEG-4 is the 14496
family of specifications,
currently up to part 12,
which is the multimedia file format,
the ISO file format part 12,
and I think they've
actually hit 14 or 15.
But the part you're curious
about probably is part 1,
systems, and maybe the audio part where
you'll find the specification
for AAC if you're curious.
ITU specifications you
can get from the ITU,
believe it or not.
They're an international treaty body,
so they actually have an int domain name.
They're www.itu.int,
and that's where you'll find
H.263 if you're curious,
though you've had H.263 in
QuickTime since I can remember.
There are related technologies.
If you're excited about cellular
telephony and what you can do with
that and your Mac and your MacOSX,
obviously you should know about iSync.
And I encourage you to learn about it.
There isn't a developer session
this week because it's an end user,
not a developer technology.
But this allows you today to sync up your
contacts and your calendar really easily.
It uses Bluetooth and other means
of communication with the phone,
but Bluetooth is the one
that works beautifully,
of course.
And Bluetooth allows you, as a developer,
to do all sorts of fun things.
Now I don't know whether
you were here last night,
but last night the Salin Clicker
actually won Best of Show for
the MacOSX Design Awards.
And that's a program that runs
cooperatively between your Mac and
a cell phone that has Bluetooth that
allows you to control anything at all
on a MacOSX that you can Apple Script,
which is very cool.
And he did that because he
knew how to use Bluetooth.
So that was a great piece of software.
You should get up on top of the
Bluetooth technology if you don't know
about it and you're a software developer.
With that,
I'm going to tell you about the
other sessions coming up today.
Don't stay in this room.
It's going to be dreadfully boring.
They're going to tell you all
about how to administer a server,
for heaven's sakes.
Instead,
we have lined up for you a Swedish chef
who's going to tell you how to cook
up content for your own cell phones
back in the room around the other side.
But after that,
you should stay in there and listen
to advanced QuickTime interactivity
just to have some fun.
The session that was going to be in here,
Wi-Fi and 3G,
has unfortunately had to be cancelled.
So don't come back here for that
session because it won't be happening.
Tomorrow, however,
there's lots of fascinating
QuickTime sessions.
Come to the QuickTime feedback forum,
of course, at 3:30, and tell us what you
think about QuickTime,
or what we ought to be doing,
or what we did wrong,
or what we did-- tell us
what we did right sometimes,
OK?
And on Friday,
there's the final QuickTime sessions.
If you have developer questions
about QuickTime technologies,
then obviously Guillermo is your man,
QuickTimeMan@apple.com.
And if he's not your man,
he's really nice.
He'll forward you to the right person.
So if you've got any
questions after the show,
and that's the only email
address you remember,
don't worry,
he'll put you in contact with us.
And then of course developer,
general developer information
that Apple is in the usual
places on the Apple website.
Don't miss the labs happening this week.
If you're a content developer,
if you're an application developer,
if you're a gardening developer, hey,
and you've got something
to do with QuickTime,
come to us.
Talk to us in the lab
about your problems,
about what you're interested in,
about what you want to do,
about things that you're
not quite sure about,
and we'll help sort you out.
Labs happening all week,
and if the right expert
isn't in the room,
they'll try and trace them down, okay?
So this is your great opportunity to
get in front of QuickTime engineers,
in front of QuickTime marketing people,
indeed,
even in front of QuickTime lawyers
if you have a question about
that aspect of our operation,
and they will try and
answer your question.